---
title: "first day at twilio"
date: "2021-03-07"
author: "kris nóva"
---
---

today is my first school day in a very long time.

so lets talk about some of the things going through my head as i embark on what i would genuinely hope to be a very long journey as a lowly engineer.

---

# success

what is the number 1 thing i want to get back out of this job when i look back on this in the future?

 > i want to smile more.

# promises to myself

i want to promise myself a few things, and more importantly i want to keep these promises.

---

### 1. be humble

i want to view myself as just another worker bee in the hive.
i don't want to be "famous" or "special" or any more capable than anyone else i meet.
i truly want to manage myself as just another worker willing to chop wood and carry water.

[how do you handle fame](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kSu0mf4MMXQ)?

> i handle fame by not being famous. not to me. i am not famous to me.
> 
> -Bob Marley

---

### 2. be grateful

i would not be here in this position if it wasn't for the love and kindness others have shown me.
i want to spread this same support, love and kindness as often as possible with as many people as i can -- especially at the office.

thank you to everyone who has supported me over the past few months - i know it hasn't always been easy

 - joe and rachel beda
 - kwyn meagher
 - francesc campoy
 - patrick barker
 - meghann macguire
 - loris degioanni
 - leonardo grasso
 - leo di donato
 - lorenzo fontana 
 - holden karau
 - bill johnson
 - gabe monroy  
 - bob wise
 - jay pipes
 - sheen austin
 - devon lindsey
 - ian coldwater
 - natalee green 

i am sure there is more i am forgetting :) you know i love you, and i mean this for everyone:

 > sincerely, thank you

---

### 3. take care of and advocate for myself

 - if i need something, i will ask for it
 - if i am hurt by something, i will speak up
 - if i feel something is unfair, i will surface it

---

### 4. say "i don't know" more

one of my main goals of this new opportunity is giving myself permission to say "i don't know" while being okay with that.

i am good at what i do, everyone knows that but me. that is why i was given this opportunity to succeed.

the only thing i need to prove to anyone, is that even the most successful engineers don't know everything.

---

### 5. listen more

nóva i love you. but seriously shut the fuck up. sometimes you need to just listen.

---

### 6. twitter

twitter is cheaper than therapy, but you can also afford a therapist. 

don't give in to the serotonin of the internet hearts - we have goals to accomplish and work to do - stay focused.

---

### 7. your career is a vehicle to retirement

say it with me folks 

> your career is a vehicle to retirement 

i don't want to lose sight of this. i should increase my savings, and use my career as a tool to enable happiness and support my crazy adventures.

---

# i am an alpinist

i wrote a small poem for myself, that i will read in times of doubt when i need to find strength.

```
i am an alpinist. 

i move quickly.

i move deliberetly. 

i am strong.

i navigate hazards.

i calculate risk.

i see oppurtunity and i strike.

i recognize that the summit is the halfway point.

i trust myself.

i believe in myself.

i know my limits. 

i know when to turn back.

i know mountains are everywhere in my life, not just in the wild.

and above all else, safety third.
```

# send that shit

you go girl. you got this. i believe in you. i would hire you. i would invest in you. send it.

